[MUSIC]
This lecture's about the General Purpose
Input/Output Pins on the Raspberry Pi B+.
So this is a layout of what
the Raspberry Pi's pins look like.
Now there's several different Raspberry
Pis, we're using the Raspberry Pi B+,
which has more pins,
it actually has 40 of these pins.
And so if you look at the picture, there
are 40 pins, two rows, 20 pins each row.
There are other Raspberry Pis,
like the Raspberry Pi B and
the Raspberry Pi A, and
those have 26 pins.
So, the stuff that I'll be talking
about is generally applicable to all
of the Raspberry Pi versions.
But we'll be talking specifically about
the pin layout on the Raspberry Pi B+.
And if you wanna apply this
to other Raspberry Pis,
you can just look at their pin layout,
it's the same ideas.
So there are a lot of pins,
two rows of pins.
And this is similar to the Arduino,
the Arduino had the pins on the sides.
Our Raspberry Pi has them all together
in one block on one side of the board.
So if you look at the pins, you could
generally group them into the dedicated
pins, dedicated power and ground pins.
So several of these pins,
all they do is output power and ground,
which you can use to
interface with other devices.
So say you wanna have a breadboard,
wire up a circuit, you need power,
you need ground,
you wire them to these pins.
So that it's a common power and ground.
So, now remember, the Raspberry Pi
actually, its pins run at 3.3 volts,
so 0 to 3.3 volts.
So you got several pins, two pins
actually, pins 1 and 17 are 3.3 volts,
they just supply 3.3 volts.
You also have pins that supply 5 volts,
pins 2 and 4 supply 5 volts.
You need that because there's still a lot
of 5 volt devices out there that need 5
volts, so the board supplies that too.
Although remember that the output pins in
the Raspberry Pi, when you drive outputs,
they're gonna be 0 and 3.3 volts.
And when you take inputs,
they've gotta be 0 and 3.3 volts.
You can't have 5 volts coming in or
going out.
But it supplies 5 volts for
other parts in the system that you might
wanna be running that need 5 volts.
And then there are several ground pins,
6, 9, 14, 20, 30, and
39 are all ground pins
that are on the board.
So a lot of the pins are dedicated,
the power, the ground and so on.
But then the rest of the pins
are general purpose pins and
some of those are multi-function pins.
So general purpose, GPIL stands for
general purpose input/output.
So a GPIO pin is just a pin that can
be used as an input or an output, and
this is the same as on the Arduino, right?
All those pins were input/output,
except for the dedicated power and ground,
they're input and output, same thing here.
So you've got GPIO, and
they're numbered GPIO.
Here we've got GPIO2, GPIO3, and GPIO4.
Notice the numbering,
this will come up later.
But the number of the PINs, there are two
different names for these pins, right?
You can call them 3, 5 and 7, or
you can call them GPIO2, GPIO3, or GPIO4.
So the pins, all of the rest of the pins
besides the dedicated ones are GPIOs and
that means that you can
control them programmatically.
So you can write code that sits in the
high or low, and you write code that reads
the values that are driven on
to them from external sources.
Now, all of the pins
labeled GPIO are that way.
Now notice that some of these pins, if we
look at the three pins we got up here,
two of these pins are actually,
they have two names, right?
There's GPIO2, if we look at pin 3.
It's labeled GPIO2 and then SDA1I2C.
And then GPIO3 is labeled SCL1I2C.
So they've got two names, so
we'll call those multi-function pins.
They can serve multiple purposes.
They can act as either GPIOs where as
a programmer you could just access
them directly.
Or they could serve another,
an alternate function based on
their alternate name, right?
So just from the name of these pins we
can already tell what their function is.
And it's good to get familiar with these
things because when you look at boards,
you look at the pin names, and just from
the name you can tell what the pin's for.
So this is SDA and SCL, these two pins.
And so if we remember from
previous courses, SDA and SCL,
the communication pins for
the I2C protocol.
So those two pins are actually
part of the I2C protocol,
actually it says right there, ISDA1I2C.
But if you remember I2C is a two-wire
protocol, two pins, SDA, SEL.
So these pins can be used for
alternate functions as well, some of them.
And notice pin 7 is just GPIO4, and
it doesn't serve any special function,
it's just general purpose I/O.
But some of these pins have dual function.
So let's start talking about some
of these multi-function pins.
Right here we'll talk about the UART pins.
So UART, if you remember from when we were
talking about Arduino, we covered UART.
UART is serial protocol, single bit,
one bit at a time is being transferred.
So these two pins, they're GPIO14 and
15 but they are also UART0_TXD and RXD.
So TX stands for transmit,
and RX stands for receive.
So if you remember UART, basically
you're sending one bit at a time, and
TX is the transmission pin.
So if you wanna send serial bit,
serial data,
UART data from the Raspberry Pi to
another device, you send it on the TX,
and on the receiving end,
you receive it on the RX.
That's the common way to do it, TX for
transmission, RX for receiving.
Remember that if you
remember with the Arduino,
we actually didn't use these pins.
The Arduino has pins that can be used for
that, but we didn't do that.
When we used serial protocol,
when we used UART,
we actually did it over the USB input.
Which is another way to do it.
But generally USB is convenient for
the Arduino.
You can do that with the Raspberry Pi, but
an alternate way which only consumes two
pins, which is kinda nice rather than
consuming the whole USB port, you can just
use two pins, is using these two wires.
So if you say had another Raspberry Pi,
you could take the TX and RX of this one,
connect it to the TX and RX of the other
one, and they can talk to each other.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]